---
Title: SWS101 Journal6
categories: [SWS101, Journal6]
tags: [SWS101]
---

### Topic: Learning x86-64 Assembly: Part 0 - Setup and First Steps

## Introduction:
I was determined to get into x86-64 assembly language programming after realizing that the university curriculum is way too behind, especially in the 64-bit programming sphere. This impelled me to learn a new skill during the period of the lockdown caused by COVID-19. I decided to take a 64-bit Windows programming course because I was more knowledgeable about the general use of the Windows OS. For assembling, I used Flat Assembler, or FASM, and for debugging, I used WinDbg. In this introductory chapter, we are going to set up our development environment, discuss some basics of the assembly language, and write our first x86-64 program for Windows.

## Setting Up the Environment:
Some of the tools that I have to bring with me for this journey include FASM for assembly and WinDbg for debugging. I selected FASM due to its ease, convenience, and abundance. WinDbg is an independent debugger, and I used it because the integrated Visual Studio debugger would steal focus from the real process of debugging at the level of the assembler language.

## Understanding Assembly Language:
Assembly Language is a human-readable interface to the machine code with which we are able to access the CPU. To program in assembly, we need to be familiar with the instruction set, registers, and memory of the CPU. Registers are special memory locations inside the CPU, and the world of assembly is greatly built upon them. Using registers, one is able to perform data manipulations relatively fast. We study general-purpose registers and special registers like rip and rflags. We will also discuss memory segmentation, the flat memory model under x86-64 architecture, and the implementation of memory protection.

## Writing Our First Program:
The first program we will see will be purposely written in a very simple way: just to load and then exit. The language in which we will write it will be x86-64 assembly, and we will use WinDbg to debug it. We set a breakpoint at the program's entry point by using the int3 instruction in order to single-step through the code.

## Understanding the Portable Executable (PE) Format:
We will analyze the Portable Executable (PE) format, with special attention towards the .idata section, in which information about imported symbols resides. We will see the structure of the Import Directory Table (IDT) and Import Address Table (IAT), and find out how imports can be defined for KERNEL32.DLL and the ExitProcess function.

## Understanding the 64-bit Windows Calling Convention:
Understanding the calling convention is crucial for calling external functions. We will delve into the Microsoft x64 calling convention: how to use registers and ensure stack alignment when calling functions. We will study calling convention rules, such as the stack pointer should be aligned at a 16-byte boundary, and the method of argument passing by registers. Finally, we will show how to use the ExitProcess function and use it as an example of how to modify the stack pointer and pass arguments.
